docs/content/4.composable.md, before:

---
title: Composable
description: Use the useOidcAuth composable to interact with authentication state
---

## Introduction

Nuxt OIDC Auth automatically adds API routes to interact with the current user session and auto imports the `useOidcAuth` composable, which provides the following properties and methods to access the user session from your Vue components or middlewares:

- [`login`](#login)
- [`logout`](#logout)
- [`loggedIn`](#loggedin)
- [`user`](#user)
- [`currentProvider`](#currentprovider)
- [`fetch`](#fetch)
- [`refresh`](#refresh)

## login

Call `login` to initiate the login process. It can be used in a route middleware as well as in components and should always be used instead of manually forwarding to `/auth/PROVIDER/login` or `/auth/login`.

Example usage:

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const { loggedIn, user, login, logout } = useOidcAuth()
</script>

<template>
  <div v-if="loggedIn">
    <h1>Welcome {{ user.userName }}!</h1>
    <p>Logged in since {{ user.loggedInAt }}</p>
    <button @click="logout()">
      Logout
    </button>
  </div>
  <div v-else>
    <h1>Not logged in</h1>
    <a href="/auth/github/login">Login with GitHub</a>
    <button @click="login()">
      Login with default provider
    </button>
  </div>
</template>
```

### Parameters

`login` takes the following parameters

| Name | Description | Type | Required |
|---|---|---|---|
| provider | The authentication provider to use. If not specified, uses the default provider. | `string` (needs to be a configured provider) | No |
| params | Additional parameters to include in the login request. Each parameters has to be listed in `allowedClientAuthParameters` in the provider configuration. | `Record<string, string>` | No |

### Returns

Promise<void> (does not have to be awaited)

## logout

Handles the logout process. Always provide the optional `provider` parameter if you haven't set a default provider. You can get the current provider from the `currentProvider` property.

Example usage:

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const { logout } = useOidcAuth()
</script>

<template>
  <button @click="logout()">
    Logout
  </button>
</template>
```

Example usage with no default provider configured or `middleware` => `customLoginPage` set to `true`:

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const { logout, currentProvider } = useOidcAuth()
</script>

<template>
  <button @click="logout(currentProvider)">
    Logout
  </button>
</template>
```

### Parameters

`logout` takes the following parameters

| Name | Description | Type | Required |
|---|---|---|---|
| provider | The authentication provider to use. If not specified, uses the default provider. | `string` (needs to be a configured provider) | No |
| logoutRedirectUri |  The URI to redirect to after logout if `logoutRedirectParameterName` is set. If not provided, the user will be redirected to the root site. | `Record<string, string>` | No |

### Returns

Promise<void> (can be awaited)

## loggedIn

Use `loggedIn` to check if the user is currently logged in.

Example usage:

```js
const { loggedIn } = useOidcAuth()

if (loggedIn.value) {
  console.log('User is logged in')
}
else {
  console.log('User is not logged in')
}
```

### Parameters

`login` takes the following parameters

| Name | Description | Required |
|---|---|---|
| provider | The authentication provider to use. If not specified, uses the default provider. | No |
| params | Additional parameters to include in the login request. Each parameters has to be listed in `allowedClientAuthParameters` in the provider configuration. | No |

### Returns

Promise<void> (does not have to be awaited)

## user

The current user object ref. See [User object](#user-object)

## currentProvider

The name of the currently logged in provider.

Example usage:

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const { logout, currentProvider } = useOidcAuth()
</script>

<template>
  <button @click="logout(currentProvider)">
    Logout
  </button>
</template>
```

## fetch

Fetches/updates the current user session from the server. Only refreshed the session if the session is expired. Mainly used in middleware or plugins to make ensure there is a session.

### Parameters

`fetch` takes no additional parameters.

### Returns

Promise<void> (can be awaited)

## refresh

Refreshes the current user session against the used provider to get a new access token. Only available if the current provider issued a refresh token (indicated by `canRefresh` property in the `user` object).

Example usage:

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const { loggedIn, user, refresh } = useOidcAuth()
const refreshing = ref(false)
async function handleRefresh() {
  refreshing.value = true
  await refresh()
  refreshing.value = false
}
</script>

<template>
  <button
    class="btn-base btn-login"
    :disabled="!loggedIn || !user?.canRefresh || refreshing"
    @click="handleRefresh()"
  >
    <span class="i-majesticons-refresh" />
    <span class="pl-2">Refresh</span>
  </button>
</template>
```

### Parameters

`refresh` takes no additional parameters.

### Returns

Promise<void> (should be awaited)

## User object

The `user` object provided by `useOidcAuth` contains the following properties:

| Name | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| provider | `string` | Name of the provider used to log in the current session |
| canRefresh | `boolean` | Whether the current session exposed a refresh token |
| loggedInAt | `number` | Login timestamp in second precision |
| updatedAt | `number` | Refresh timestamp in second precision |
| expireAt | `number` | Session expiration timestamp in second precision. Either `loggedInAt` plus session max age or expiration of access token if available. |
| userInfo | `Record<string, unknown>` | Additional information coming from the provider's userinfo endpoint |
| userName | `string` | Coming either from the provider or from the configured mapped claim |
| claims | `Record<string, unknown>` | Additional optional claims from the id token, if `optionalClaims` setting is configured. |
| accessToken | `string` | Exposed access token, only existent when `exposeAccessToken` is configured. |
| idToken | `string` | Exposed access token, only existent when `exposeIdToken` is configured. |

You can extend the type for your provider info by creating a type declaration file (for example, `auth.d.ts`) in your project:

```ts
declare module '#oidc-auth' {
  interface UserSession {
    // define custom claim object
    claims: {
      customProviderToken: string
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

feat: restore original-url callback redirect with configured precedence
Closes #74

docs/content/4.composable.md, after:

---
title: Composable
description: Use the useOidcAuth composable to interact with authentication state
---

## Introduction

Nuxt OIDC Auth automatically adds API routes to interact with the current user session and auto imports the `useOidcAuth` composable, which provides the following properties and methods to access the user session from your Vue components or middlewares:

- [`login`](#login)
- [`logout`](#logout)
- [`loggedIn`](#loggedin)
- [`user`](#user)
- [`currentProvider`](#currentprovider)
- [`fetch`](#fetch)
- [`refresh`](#refresh)

## login

Call `login` to initiate the login process. It can be used in a route middleware as well as in components and should always be used instead of manually forwarding to `/auth/PROVIDER/login` or `/auth/login`.

Example usage:

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const { loggedIn, user, login, logout } = useOidcAuth()
</script>

<template>
  <div v-if="loggedIn">
    <h1>Welcome {{ user.userName }}!</h1>
    <p>Logged in since {{ user.loggedInAt }}</p>
    <button @click="logout()">
      Logout
    </button>
  </div>
  <div v-else>
    <h1>Not logged in</h1>
    <a href="/auth/github/login">Login with GitHub</a>
    <button @click="login()">
      Login with default provider
    </button>
  </div>
</template>
```

### Parameters

`login` takes the following parameters

| Name | Description | Type | Required |
|---|---|---|---|
| provider | The authentication provider to use. If not specified, uses the default provider. | `string` (needs to be a configured provider) | No |
| params | Additional parameters to include in the login request. Parameters must be listed in `allowedClientAuthParameters` in the provider configuration, except `callbackRedirectUrl` which is handled by the module and can be used to return to a local path after callback. | `Record<string, string>` | No |

### Returns

Promise<void> (does not have to be awaited)

## logout

Handles the logout process. Always provide the optional `provider` parameter if you haven't set a default provider. You can get the current provider from the `currentProvider` property.

Example usage:

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const { logout } = useOidcAuth()
</script>

<template>
  <button @click="logout()">
    Logout
  </button>
</template>
```

Example usage with no default provider configured or `middleware` => `customLoginPage` set to `true`:

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const { logout, currentProvider } = useOidcAuth()
</script>

<template>
  <button @click="logout(currentProvider)">
    Logout
  </button>
</template>
```

### Parameters

`logout` takes the following parameters

| Name | Description | Type | Required |
|---|---|---|---|
| provider | The authentication provider to use. If not specified, uses the default provider. | `string` (needs to be a configured provider) | No |
| logoutRedirectUri |  The URI to redirect to after logout if `logoutRedirectParameterName` is set. If not provided, the user will be redirected to the root site. | `Record<string, string>` | No |

### Returns

Promise<void> (can be awaited)

## loggedIn

Use `loggedIn` to check if the user is currently logged in.

Example usage:

```js
const { loggedIn } = useOidcAuth()

if (loggedIn.value) {
  console.log('User is logged in')
}
else {
  console.log('User is not logged in')
}
```

### Parameters

`login` takes the following parameters

| Name | Description | Required |
|---|---|---|
| provider | The authentication provider to use. If not specified, uses the default provider. | No |
| params | Additional parameters to include in the login request. Each parameters has to be listed in `allowedClientAuthParameters` in the provider configuration. | No |

### Returns

Promise<void> (does not have to be awaited)

## user

The current user object ref. See [User object](#user-object)

## currentProvider

The name of the currently logged in provider.

Example usage:

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const { logout, currentProvider } = useOidcAuth()
</script>

<template>
  <button @click="logout(currentProvider)">
    Logout
  </button>
</template>
```

## fetch

Fetches/updates the current user session from the server. Only refreshed the session if the session is expired. Mainly used in middleware or plugins to make ensure there is a session.

### Parameters

`fetch` takes no additional parameters.

### Returns

Promise<void> (can be awaited)

## refresh

Refreshes the current user session against the used provider to get a new access token. Only available if the current provider issued a refresh token (indicated by `canRefresh` property in the `user` object).

Example usage:

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const { loggedIn, user, refresh } = useOidcAuth()
const refreshing = ref(false)
async function handleRefresh() {
  refreshing.value = true
  await refresh()
  refreshing.value = false
}
</script>

<template>
  <button
    class="btn-base btn-login"
    :disabled="!loggedIn || !user?.canRefresh || refreshing"
    @click="handleRefresh()"
  >
    <span class="i-majesticons-refresh" />
    <span class="pl-2">Refresh</span>
  </button>
</template>
```

### Parameters

`refresh` takes no additional parameters.

### Returns

Promise<void> (should be awaited)

## User object

The `user` object provided by `useOidcAuth` contains the following properties:

| Name | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| provider | `string` | Name of the provider used to log in the current session |
| canRefresh | `boolean` | Whether the current session exposed a refresh token |
| loggedInAt | `number` | Login timestamp in second precision |
| updatedAt | `number` | Refresh timestamp in second precision |
| expireAt | `number` | Session expiration timestamp in second precision. Either `loggedInAt` plus session max age or expiration of access token if available. |
| userInfo | `Record<string, unknown>` | Additional information coming from the provider's userinfo endpoint |
| userName | `string` | Coming either from the provider or from the configured mapped claim |
| claims | `Record<string, unknown>` | Additional optional claims from the id token, if `optionalClaims` setting is configured. |
| accessToken | `string` | Exposed access token, only existent when `exposeAccessToken` is configured. |
| idToken | `string` | Exposed access token, only existent when `exposeIdToken` is configured. |

You can extend the type for your provider info by creating a type declaration file (for example, `auth.d.ts`) in your project:

```ts
declare module '#oidc-auth' {
  interface UserSession {
    // define custom claim object
    claims: {
      customProviderToken: string
    }
  }
}
```
