README.md, before:

# Nuxt OIDC Auth

[![npm version][npm-version-src]][npm-version-href]
[![npm downloads][npm-downloads-src]][npm-downloads-href]
[![License][license-src]][license-href]
[![Nuxt][nuxt-src]][nuxt-href]

Welcome to __Nuxt OIDC Auth__ a Nuxt module focusing on OIDC (OpenID Connect) provider based authentication for Nuxt.
We use no external dependencies outside of the [unjs](https://unjs.io/) ecosystem except for token validation. This module is based on the session implementation of nuxt-auth-utils.

If you are looking for a module for local authentication without an external identity provider (and much more) provided by your Nuxt server check out the nuxt-auth module from sidebase (powered by authjs and NextAuth) ➡️ [nuxt-auth](https://github.com/sidebase/nuxt-auth)

🔒 [Online Playground](https://stackblitz.com/github/itpropro/nuxt-oidc-auth/tree/main/playground)

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This module is still in development

Contributions are welcome!

## Features

- Secured & sealed cookies sessions
- Presets for popular OAuth providers
- Generic spec compliant OpenID connect provider
- Multi provider support
- Encrypted server side refresh/access token storage powered by unstorage
- Session expiration check
- Automatic session renewal when session is expired

## Requirements

This module only works with SSR (server-side rendering) enabled as it uses server API routes. You cannot use this module with `nuxt generate`.

## Quick Setup

1. Add `nuxt-oidc-auth` dependency to your project

```bash
# Using pnpm
pnpm add -D nuxt-oidc-auth

# Using yarn
yarn add --dev nuxt-oidc-auth

# Using npm
npm install --save-dev nuxt-oidc-auth
```

2. Add `nuxt-oidc-auth` to the `modules` section of `nuxt.config.ts`

```js
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: [
    'nuxt-oidc-auth'
  ]
})
```

3. Set secrets

Nuxt-OIDC-Auth uses three different secrets to encrypt the user session, the in individual auth sessions and the persistent server side token store. You can set them using environment variables or in the `.env` file.
All of the secrets are auto generated if not set, but should be set manually in production. This is especially important for the session storage, as it won't be accessible anymore if the secret changes for example after a server restart.

- NUXT_OIDC_SESSION_SECRET (random string): This should be a at least 48 characters random string. It is used to encrypt the user session.
- NUXT_OIDC_TOKEN_KEY (random key): This needs to be a random cryptographic AES key in base64. Used to encrypt the server side token store. You can generate a key in JS with `await subtle.exportKey('raw', await subtle.generateKey({ name: 'AES-GCM', length: 256, }, true, ['encrypt', 'decrypt']))`, you just have to encode it to base64 afterwards.
- NUXT_OIDC_AUTH_SESSION_SECRET (random string): This should be a at least 48 characters random string. It is used to encrypt the individual sessions during OAuth flows.

```bash
Add a `NUXT_OIDC_SESSION_SECRET` env variable with at least 48 characters in the `.env`.

```bash
# .env
NUXT_OIDC_TOKEN_KEY=base64_encoded_key
NUXT_OIDC_SESSION_SECRET=48_characters_random_string
NUXT_OIDC_AUTH_SESSION_SECRET=48_characters_random_string
```

4. That's it! You can now add authentication to your Nuxt app ✨

## Vue Composables

Nuxt OIDC Auth automatically add some api routes to interact with the current user session and adds the following composables to access it from your Vue components:

- `loggedIn` (boolean)
- `user` (object)
- `currentProvider` (string)
- `configuredProviders` (string[])
- `fetch` (void)
- `refresh` (void)
- `login` (function)
- `logout` ()

### `loggedIn` => (boolean)

Indicates whether the user is currently logged in.

Example usage:

```vue
if (loggedIn) {
  console.log("User is logged in");
} else {
  console.log("User is not logged in");
}
```

### `user` => (object)

Represents the current user object.

### `currentProvider` => (string)

Stores the name of the currently logged in provider.

### `configuredProviders` => (string[])

An array that contains the names of the configured providers.

### `fetch` => (void)

Fetches/updates the current user session.

### `refresh` => (void)

A function that refreshes the current user session against the used provider to get a new access token. Only available if the current provider issued a refresh token (indicated by `canRefresh` property in the user object).

### `login` => (function(provider: string))

A function that handles the login process.

Example usage:

```vue
<script setup>
const { loggedIn, user, login } = useUserSession()
</script>

<template>
  <div v-if="loggedIn">
    <h1>Welcome {{ user.userName }}!</h1>
    <p>Logged in since {{ session.loggedInAt }}</p>
    <button @click="logout()">Logout</button>
  </div>
  <div v-else>
    <h1>Not logged in</h1>
    <a href="/auth/github/login">Login with GitHub</a>
    <button @click="login()">Login with default provider</a>
  </div>
</template>
```

### `logout` => (function(provider: string))

A function that handles the logout process. Always provide the optional `provider` parameter, if you haven't set a default provider. You can get the current provider from the `currentProvider` property.

Example usage:

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const { logout } = useOidcAuth()
</script>

<template>
  <button @click="logout()">Logout</button>
</template>
```

Example usage with no default provider configured or middleware `customLoginPage` set to `true`:

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const { logout, currentProvider } = useOidcAuth()
</script>

<template>
  <button @click="logout(currentProvider)">Logout</button>
</template>
```

## Server Utils

The following helpers are auto-imported in your `server/` directory.

### Middleware

This module can automatically add a global middleware to your Nuxt server. You can enable it by setting `globalMiddlewareEnabled` und the `middleware` section of the config.
The middleware automatically redirects all requests to `/auth/login` if the user is not logged in. You can disable this behavior by setting `redirect` to `false` in the `middleware` configuration.
The `/auth/login` route is only configured if you have defined a default provider. If you want to use a custom login page and keep your default provider or don't want to set a default provider at all, you can set `customLoginPage` to `true` in the `middleware` configuration.

If you set `customLoginPage` to `true`, you have to manually add a login page to your Nuxt app under `/auth/login`. You can use the `login` method from the `useUserSession` composable to redirect the user to the respective provider login page.
Settings `customLoginPage` to `true` will also disable the `/auth/logout` route. You have to manually add a logout page to your Nuxt app under `/auth/logout` and use the `logout` method from the `useUserSession` composable to logout the user or make sure that you always provide the optional `provider` parameter to the `logout` method.

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const { logout, currentProvider } = useOidcAuth()
</script>

<template>
  <button @click="logout(currentProvider)">Logout</button>
</template>
```

⚠️ Everything under the `/auth` path is not protected by the global middleware. Make sure to not use this path for any other purpose than authentication.

### Session expiration and refresh

Nuxt-OIDC-Auth automatically checks if the session is expired and refreshes it if necessary. You can disable this behavior by setting `expirationCheck` and `automaticRefresh` to `false` in the `session` configuration.
The session is automatically refreshed when the `session` object is accessed. You can also manually refresh the session by calling `refreshUserSession(event)`.

Session expiration and refresh is handled completely server side, the exposed properties in the user session are automatically updated. You can theoretically register a hook that overwrites session fields like loggedInAt, but this is not recommended and will be overwritten with each refresh.

### OIDC Event Handlers

All configured providers automatically register the following server routes.

- `/auth/<provider>/callback`
- `/auth/<provider>/login`
- `/auth/<provider>/logout`

In addition, if `defaultProvider` is set, the following route rules are registered as forwards to the default provider.

- `/auth/login`
- `/auth/logout`

The `config` can be defined directly from the `runtimeConfig` in your `nuxt.config.ts`:

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  runtimeConfig: {
    oidc: {
      providers: {
        <provider>: {
          clientId: '...',
          clientSecret: '...'
        }
      }
    }
  }
})
```

It can also be set using environment variables:

- `NUXT_OIDC_PROVIDERS_PROVIDER_CLIENT_ID`
- `NUXT_OIDC_PROVIDERS_PROVIDER_CLIENT_SECRET`

#### Supported OAuth Providers

Nuxt Oidc Auth includes presets for the following providers with tested default values:

- Auth0
- GitHub
- Microsoft
- Microsoft Entra ID (previously Azure AD)
- Generic OIDC

You can add a generic OpenID Connect provider by using the `oidc` provider key in the configuration. Remember to set the required fields and expect your provider to behave slightly different than defined in the OAuth and OIDC specifications.

Make sure to set the callback URL in your OAuth app settings as `<your-domain>/auth/github`.

### Hooks

The following hooks are available to extend the default behavior of the OIDC module:

- `fetch` (Called when a user session is fetched)
- `clear` (Called before a user session is cleared)
- `refresh` (Called before a user session is refreshed)

#### Example

```ts
export default defineNitroPlugin(() => {
  sessionHooks.hook('fetch', async (session) => {
    // Extend User Session
    // Or throw createError({ ... }) if session is invalid
    // session.extended = {
    //   fromHooks: true
    // }
    console.log('Injecting "country" claim as test')
    if (!(Object.keys(session).length === 0)) {
      const claimToAdd = { country: 'Germany' }  
      session.claims = { ...session.claims, ...claimToAdd }
    }
  })

  sessionHooks.hook('clear', async (session) => {
    // Log that user logged out
    console.log('User logged out')
  })
})
```

You can theoretically register a hook that overwrites internal session fields like `loggedInAt`, but this is not recommended as it has an impact on the loggedIn state of your session. It will not impact the server side refresh and expiration logic, but will be overwritten with each refresh.

## Configuration reference

### `oidc`

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| enabled | boolean | - | Enables/disables the module |
| defaultProvider | boolean | - | Sets the default provider. Enables automatic registration of `/auth/login` and `/auth/logout` route rules |

### `<provider>`

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| clientId | `string` | - | Client ID |
| clientSecret | `string` | - | Client Secret |
| responseType | `'code'` \| `'code token'` \| `'code id_token'` \| `'id_token token'` \| `'code id_token token'` (optional) | - | Response Type |
| authenticationScheme | `'header'` \| `'body'` (optional) | - | Authentication scheme |
| responseMode | `'query'` \| `'fragment'` \| `'form_post'` (optional) | - | Response Mode |
| authorizationUrl | `string` (optional) | - | Authorization Endpoint URL |
| tokenUrl | `string` (optional) | - | Token Endpoint URL |
| userinfoUrl | `string` (optional) | '' | Userinfo Endpoint URL |
| redirectUri | `string` (optional) | - | Redirect URI |
| grantType | `'authorization_code'` \| 'refresh_token' (optional) | 'authorization_code' | Grant Type |
| scope | `string`[] (optional) | ['openid'] | Scope |
| pkce | `boolean` (optional) | true | Use PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange) |
| state | `boolean` (optional) | true | Use state parameter with a random value. If state is not used, the nonce parameter is used to identify the flow. |
| nonce | `boolean` (optional) | false | Use nonce parameter with a random value. |
| userNameClaim | `string` (optional) | '' | User name claim that is used to get the user name from the access token as a fallback in case the userinfo endpoint is not provided or the userinfo request fails. |
| optionalClaims | `string[]` (optional) | - | Claims to be extracted from the id token |
| logoutUrl | `string` (optional) | '' | Logout Endpoint URL |
| scopeInTokenRequest | `boolean` (optional) | false | Include scope in token request |
| tokenRequestType | `'form'` \| `'json'` (optional) | `'form'` | Token request type |
| audience | `string` (optional) | - | Audience used for token validation (not included in requests by default, use additionalTokenParameters or additionalAuthParameters to add it) |
| requiredProperties | `string`[] | - | An array of required properties. |
| filterUserinfo | `string[]`(optional) | - | An array of required properties. |
| skipAccessTokenParsing | `boolean`(optional) | - | An array of required properties. |
| logoutRedirectParameterName | `string` (optional) | - | The name of the logout redirect parameter. |
| additionalAuthParameters | `Record<string, string>` (optional) | - | Additional authentication parameters. |
| additionalTokenParameters | `Record<string, string>` (optional) | - | Additional token parameters. |
| baseUrl | `string` (optional) | - | The base URL. |
| openIdConfiguration | `Record<string, unknown>` or `function (config) => Record<string, unknown>` (optional) | - | The OpenID configuration, can be an object or a function returning a promise. |
| validateAccessToken | `boolean` (optional) | - | Whether to validate the access token. |
| validateIdToken | `boolean` (optional) | - | Whether to validate the ID token. |

### `session`

The following options are available for the session configuration.

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| expirationCheck | `boolean` | `true` | Check if session is expired |
| automaticRefresh | `boolean` | `true` | Automatically refresh session when expired |
| maxAge | `number` | `60 * 60` | Session duration |
| cookie | `` | `` | Additional cookies setting overrides for `sameSite` and `secure` |

```ts
  oidc: {
    ...
    session: {
      expirationCheck: true,
      automaticRefresh: true,
    }
  }
```

### `middleware`

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| globalMiddlewareEnabled | boolean | - | Enables/disables the global middleware |
| customLoginPage | boolean | - | Enables/disables automatic registration of `/auth/login` and `/auth/logout` route rules |

## Provider specific configurations

Some providers have specific additional fields that can be used to extend the authorization or token request. These fields are available via. `additionalAuthParameters` or `additionalTokenParameters` in the provider configuration.

:warning: Tokens will only be validated, if the `clientId` or the optional `audience` field is part of the access_tokens audiences. Even if `validateAccessToken` or `validateIdToken` is set, if the audience doesn't match, the token should and will not be validated.

### Auth0

| Option         | Type   | Default | Description       |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| connection     | `string` |         | Optional. Specifies the connection.     |
| organization   | `string` |         | Optional. Specifies the organization.   |
| invitation     | `string` |         | Optional. Specifies the invitation.     |
| loginHint      | `string` |         | Optional. Specifies the login hint.     |

- Depending on the settings of your apps `Credentials` tab, set `authenticationScheme` to `body` for 'Client Secret (Post)', set to `header` for 'Client Secret (Basic)', set to `''` for 'None'

### Entra ID/Microsoft

If you want to validate access tokens from Microsoft Entra ID (previously Azure AD), you need to make sure that the scope includes your own API. You have to register an API first and expose some scopes to your App Registration that you want to request. If you only have GraphAPI entries like `openid`, `mail` GraphAPI specific ones in your scope, the returned access token cannot and should not be verified. If the scope is set correctly, you can set `validateAccessToken` option to `true`.

### GitHub

GitHub is not strictly an OIDC provider, but it can be used as one. Make sure that validation is disabled and that you keep the `skipAccessTokenParsing` option to `true`.

Try to use a [GitHub App](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/oauth-apps/building-oauth-apps/differences-between-github-apps-and-oauth-apps), not the legacy OAuth app. They don't provide the same level of security, have no granular permissions, don't provide refresh tokens and are not tested.

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Generate type stubs
npm run dev:prepare

# Develop with the playground
npm run dev

# Build the playground
npm run dev:build

# Run ESLint
npm run lint

# Run Vitest
npm run test
npm run test:watch

# Release new version
npm run release
```

<!-- Badges -->
[npm-version-src]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/nuxt-oidc-auth/latest.svg?style=flat&colorA=18181B&colorB=28CF8D
[npm-version-href]: https://npmjs.com/package/@itpropro/nuxt-oidc-auth

[npm-downloads-src]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/nuxt-oidc-auth.svg?style=flat&colorA=18181B&colorB=28CF8D
[npm-downloads-href]: https://npmjs.com/package/@itpropro/nuxt-oidc-auth

[license-src]: https://img.shields.io/npm/l/nuxt-oidc-auth.svg?style=flat&colorA=18181B&colorB=28CF8D
[license-href]: https://npmjs.com/package/@itpropro/nuxt-oidc-auth

[nuxt-src]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Nuxt-18181B?logo=nuxt.js
[nuxt-href]: https://nuxt.com

Commit message:

feat(composables): :fire:  Deprecated configuredProviders property

README.md, after:

# Nuxt OIDC Auth

[![npm version][npm-version-src]][npm-version-href]
[![npm downloads][npm-downloads-src]][npm-downloads-href]
[![License][license-src]][license-href]
[![Nuxt][nuxt-src]][nuxt-href]

Welcome to __Nuxt OIDC Auth__ a Nuxt module focusing on OIDC (OpenID Connect) provider based authentication for Nuxt.
We use no external dependencies outside of the [unjs](https://unjs.io/) ecosystem except for token validation. This module is based on the session implementation of nuxt-auth-utils.

If you are looking for a module for local authentication without an external identity provider (and much more) provided by your Nuxt server check out the nuxt-auth module from sidebase (powered by authjs and NextAuth) ➡️ [nuxt-auth](https://github.com/sidebase/nuxt-auth)

🔒 [Online Playground](https://stackblitz.com/github/itpropro/nuxt-oidc-auth/tree/main/playground)

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This module is still in development

Contributions are welcome!

## Features

- Secured & sealed cookies sessions
- Presets for popular OAuth providers
- Generic spec compliant OpenID connect provider
- Multi provider support
- Encrypted server side refresh/access token storage powered by unstorage
- Session expiration check
- Automatic session renewal when session is expired

## Requirements

This module only works with SSR (server-side rendering) enabled as it uses server API routes. You cannot use this module with `nuxt generate`.

## Quick Setup

1. Add `nuxt-oidc-auth` dependency to your project

```bash
# Using pnpm
pnpm add -D nuxt-oidc-auth

# Using yarn
yarn add --dev nuxt-oidc-auth

# Using npm
npm install --save-dev nuxt-oidc-auth
```

2. Add `nuxt-oidc-auth` to the `modules` section of `nuxt.config.ts`

```js
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: [
    'nuxt-oidc-auth'
  ]
})
```

3. Set secrets

Nuxt-OIDC-Auth uses three different secrets to encrypt the user session, the in individual auth sessions and the persistent server side token store. You can set them using environment variables or in the `.env` file.
All of the secrets are auto generated if not set, but should be set manually in production. This is especially important for the session storage, as it won't be accessible anymore if the secret changes for example after a server restart.

- NUXT_OIDC_SESSION_SECRET (random string): This should be a at least 48 characters random string. It is used to encrypt the user session.
- NUXT_OIDC_TOKEN_KEY (random key): This needs to be a random cryptographic AES key in base64. Used to encrypt the server side token store. You can generate a key in JS with `await subtle.exportKey('raw', await subtle.generateKey({ name: 'AES-GCM', length: 256, }, true, ['encrypt', 'decrypt']))`, you just have to encode it to base64 afterwards.
- NUXT_OIDC_AUTH_SESSION_SECRET (random string): This should be a at least 48 characters random string. It is used to encrypt the individual sessions during OAuth flows.

```bash
Add a `NUXT_OIDC_SESSION_SECRET` env variable with at least 48 characters in the `.env`.

```bash
# .env
NUXT_OIDC_TOKEN_KEY=base64_encoded_key
NUXT_OIDC_SESSION_SECRET=48_characters_random_string
NUXT_OIDC_AUTH_SESSION_SECRET=48_characters_random_string
```

4. That's it! You can now add authentication to your Nuxt app ✨

## Vue Composables

Nuxt OIDC Auth automatically add some api routes to interact with the current user session and adds the following composables to access it from your Vue components:

- `loggedIn`
- `user`
- `currentProvider`
- ~~`configuredProviders`~~ - Deprecated
- `fetch`
- `refresh`
- `login`
- `logout`

### `loggedIn` => (boolean)

Indicates whether the user is currently logged in.

Example usage:

```vue
if (loggedIn) {
  console.log("User is logged in");
} else {
  console.log("User is not logged in");
}
```

### `user` => (object)

Represents the current user object.

### `currentProvider` => (string)

Stores the name of the currently logged in provider.

### ~~`configuredProviders` => (string[])~~ - Deprecated due to security concerns (exposes potentially sensitive information)

~~An array that contains the names of the configured providers.~~

### `fetch` => (void)

Fetches/updates the current user session.

### `refresh` => (void)

A function that refreshes the current user session against the used provider to get a new access token. Only available if the current provider issued a refresh token (indicated by `canRefresh` property in the user object).

### `login` => (function(provider: string))

A function that handles the login process.

Example usage:

```vue
<script setup>
const { loggedIn, user, login } = useUserSession()
</script>

<template>
  <div v-if="loggedIn">
    <h1>Welcome {{ user.userName }}!</h1>
    <p>Logged in since {{ session.loggedInAt }}</p>
    <button @click="logout()">Logout</button>
  </div>
  <div v-else>
    <h1>Not logged in</h1>
    <a href="/auth/github/login">Login with GitHub</a>
    <button @click="login()">Login with default provider</a>
  </div>
</template>
```

### `logout` => (function(provider: string))

A function that handles the logout process. Always provide the optional `provider` parameter, if you haven't set a default provider. You can get the current provider from the `currentProvider` property.

Example usage:

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const { logout } = useOidcAuth()
</script>

<template>
  <button @click="logout()">Logout</button>
</template>
```

Example usage with no default provider configured or middleware `customLoginPage` set to `true`:

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const { logout, currentProvider } = useOidcAuth()
</script>

<template>
  <button @click="logout(currentProvider)">Logout</button>
</template>
```

## Server Utils

The following helpers are auto-imported in your `server/` directory.

### Middleware

This module can automatically add a global middleware to your Nuxt server. You can enable it by setting `globalMiddlewareEnabled` und the `middleware` section of the config.
The middleware automatically redirects all requests to `/auth/login` if the user is not logged in. You can disable this behavior by setting `redirect` to `false` in the `middleware` configuration.
The `/auth/login` route is only configured if you have defined a default provider. If you want to use a custom login page and keep your default provider or don't want to set a default provider at all, you can set `customLoginPage` to `true` in the `middleware` configuration.

If you set `customLoginPage` to `true`, you have to manually add a login page to your Nuxt app under `/auth/login`. You can use the `login` method from the `useUserSession` composable to redirect the user to the respective provider login page.
Settings `customLoginPage` to `true` will also disable the `/auth/logout` route. You have to manually add a logout page to your Nuxt app under `/auth/logout` and use the `logout` method from the `useUserSession` composable to logout the user or make sure that you always provide the optional `provider` parameter to the `logout` method.

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
const { logout, currentProvider } = useOidcAuth()
</script>

<template>
  <button @click="logout(currentProvider)">Logout</button>
</template>
```

⚠️ Everything under the `/auth` path is not protected by the global middleware. Make sure to not use this path for any other purpose than authentication.

### Session expiration and refresh

Nuxt-OIDC-Auth automatically checks if the session is expired and refreshes it if necessary. You can disable this behavior by setting `expirationCheck` and `automaticRefresh` to `false` in the `session` configuration.
The session is automatically refreshed when the `session` object is accessed. You can also manually refresh the session by calling `refreshUserSession(event)`.

Session expiration and refresh is handled completely server side, the exposed properties in the user session are automatically updated. You can theoretically register a hook that overwrites session fields like loggedInAt, but this is not recommended and will be overwritten with each refresh.

### OIDC Event Handlers

All configured providers automatically register the following server routes.

- `/auth/<provider>/callback`
- `/auth/<provider>/login`
- `/auth/<provider>/logout`

In addition, if `defaultProvider` is set, the following route rules are registered as forwards to the default provider.

- `/auth/login`
- `/auth/logout`

The `config` can be defined directly from the `runtimeConfig` in your `nuxt.config.ts`:

```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  runtimeConfig: {
    oidc: {
      providers: {
        <provider>: {
          clientId: '...',
          clientSecret: '...'
        }
      }
    }
  }
})
```

It can also be set using environment variables:

- `NUXT_OIDC_PROVIDERS_PROVIDER_CLIENT_ID`
- `NUXT_OIDC_PROVIDERS_PROVIDER_CLIENT_SECRET`

#### Supported OAuth Providers

Nuxt Oidc Auth includes presets for the following providers with tested default values:

- Auth0
- GitHub
- Microsoft
- Microsoft Entra ID (previously Azure AD)
- Generic OIDC

You can add a generic OpenID Connect provider by using the `oidc` provider key in the configuration. Remember to set the required fields and expect your provider to behave slightly different than defined in the OAuth and OIDC specifications.

Make sure to set the callback URL in your OAuth app settings as `<your-domain>/auth/github`.

### Hooks

The following hooks are available to extend the default behavior of the OIDC module:

- `fetch` (Called when a user session is fetched)
- `clear` (Called before a user session is cleared)
- `refresh` (Called before a user session is refreshed)

#### Example

```ts
export default defineNitroPlugin(() => {
  sessionHooks.hook('fetch', async (session) => {
    // Extend User Session
    // Or throw createError({ ... }) if session is invalid
    // session.extended = {
    //   fromHooks: true
    // }
    console.log('Injecting "country" claim as test')
    if (!(Object.keys(session).length === 0)) {
      const claimToAdd = { country: 'Germany' }  
      session.claims = { ...session.claims, ...claimToAdd }
    }
  })

  sessionHooks.hook('clear', async (session) => {
    // Log that user logged out
    console.log('User logged out')
  })
})
```

You can theoretically register a hook that overwrites internal session fields like `loggedInAt`, but this is not recommended as it has an impact on the loggedIn state of your session. It will not impact the server side refresh and expiration logic, but will be overwritten with each refresh.

## Configuration reference

### `oidc`

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| enabled | boolean | - | Enables/disables the module |
| defaultProvider | boolean | - | Sets the default provider. Enables automatic registration of `/auth/login` and `/auth/logout` route rules |

### `<provider>`

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| clientId | `string` | - | Client ID |
| clientSecret | `string` | - | Client Secret |
| responseType | `'code'` \| `'code token'` \| `'code id_token'` \| `'id_token token'` \| `'code id_token token'` (optional) | - | Response Type |
| authenticationScheme | `'header'` \| `'body'` (optional) | - | Authentication scheme |
| responseMode | `'query'` \| `'fragment'` \| `'form_post'` (optional) | - | Response Mode |
| authorizationUrl | `string` (optional) | - | Authorization Endpoint URL |
| tokenUrl | `string` (optional) | - | Token Endpoint URL |
| userinfoUrl | `string` (optional) | '' | Userinfo Endpoint URL |
| redirectUri | `string` (optional) | - | Redirect URI |
| grantType | `'authorization_code'` \| 'refresh_token' (optional) | 'authorization_code' | Grant Type |
| scope | `string`[] (optional) | ['openid'] | Scope |
| pkce | `boolean` (optional) | true | Use PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange) |
| state | `boolean` (optional) | true | Use state parameter with a random value. If state is not used, the nonce parameter is used to identify the flow. |
| nonce | `boolean` (optional) | false | Use nonce parameter with a random value. |
| userNameClaim | `string` (optional) | '' | User name claim that is used to get the user name from the access token as a fallback in case the userinfo endpoint is not provided or the userinfo request fails. |
| optionalClaims | `string[]` (optional) | - | Claims to be extracted from the id token |
| logoutUrl | `string` (optional) | '' | Logout Endpoint URL |
| scopeInTokenRequest | `boolean` (optional) | false | Include scope in token request |
| tokenRequestType | `'form'` \| `'json'` (optional) | `'form'` | Token request type |
| audience | `string` (optional) | - | Audience used for token validation (not included in requests by default, use additionalTokenParameters or additionalAuthParameters to add it) |
| requiredProperties | `string`[] | - | An array of required properties. |
| filterUserinfo | `string[]`(optional) | - | An array of required properties. |
| skipAccessTokenParsing | `boolean`(optional) | - | An array of required properties. |
| logoutRedirectParameterName | `string` (optional) | - | The name of the logout redirect parameter. |
| additionalAuthParameters | `Record<string, string>` (optional) | - | Additional authentication parameters. |
| additionalTokenParameters | `Record<string, string>` (optional) | - | Additional token parameters. |
| baseUrl | `string` (optional) | - | The base URL. |
| openIdConfiguration | `Record<string, unknown>` or `function (config) => Record<string, unknown>` (optional) | - | The OpenID configuration, can be an object or a function returning a promise. |
| validateAccessToken | `boolean` (optional) | - | Whether to validate the access token. |
| validateIdToken | `boolean` (optional) | - | Whether to validate the ID token. |

### `session`

The following options are available for the session configuration.

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| expirationCheck | `boolean` | `true` | Check if session is expired |
| automaticRefresh | `boolean` | `true` | Automatically refresh session when expired |
| maxAge | `number` | `60 * 60` | Session duration |
| cookie | `` | `` | Additional cookies setting overrides for `sameSite` and `secure` |

```ts
  oidc: {
    ...
    session: {
      expirationCheck: true,
      automaticRefresh: true,
    }
  }
```

### `middleware`

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| globalMiddlewareEnabled | boolean | - | Enables/disables the global middleware |
| customLoginPage | boolean | - | Enables/disables automatic registration of `/auth/login` and `/auth/logout` route rules |

## Provider specific configurations

Some providers have specific additional fields that can be used to extend the authorization or token request. These fields are available via. `additionalAuthParameters` or `additionalTokenParameters` in the provider configuration.

:warning: Tokens will only be validated, if the `clientId` or the optional `audience` field is part of the access_tokens audiences. Even if `validateAccessToken` or `validateIdToken` is set, if the audience doesn't match, the token should and will not be validated.

### Auth0

| Option         | Type   | Default | Description       |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| connection     | `string` |         | Optional. Specifies the connection.     |
| organization   | `string` |         | Optional. Specifies the organization.   |
| invitation     | `string` |         | Optional. Specifies the invitation.     |
| loginHint      | `string` |         | Optional. Specifies the login hint.     |

- Depending on the settings of your apps `Credentials` tab, set `authenticationScheme` to `body` for 'Client Secret (Post)', set to `header` for 'Client Secret (Basic)', set to `''` for 'None'

### Entra ID/Microsoft

If you want to validate access tokens from Microsoft Entra ID (previously Azure AD), you need to make sure that the scope includes your own API. You have to register an API first and expose some scopes to your App Registration that you want to request. If you only have GraphAPI entries like `openid`, `mail` GraphAPI specific ones in your scope, the returned access token cannot and should not be verified. If the scope is set correctly, you can set `validateAccessToken` option to `true`.

### GitHub

GitHub is not strictly an OIDC provider, but it can be used as one. Make sure that validation is disabled and that you keep the `skipAccessTokenParsing` option to `true`.

Try to use a [GitHub App](https://docs.github.com/en/apps/oauth-apps/building-oauth-apps/differences-between-github-apps-and-oauth-apps), not the legacy OAuth app. They don't provide the same level of security, have no granular permissions, don't provide refresh tokens and are not tested.

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Generate type stubs
npm run dev:prepare

# Develop with the playground
npm run dev

# Build the playground
npm run dev:build

# Run ESLint
npm run lint

# Run Vitest
npm run test
npm run test:watch

# Release new version
npm run release
```

<!-- Badges -->
[npm-version-src]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/nuxt-oidc-auth/latest.svg?style=flat&colorA=18181B&colorB=28CF8D
[npm-version-href]: https://npmjs.com/package/@itpropro/nuxt-oidc-auth

[npm-downloads-src]: https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/nuxt-oidc-auth.svg?style=flat&colorA=18181B&colorB=28CF8D
[npm-downloads-href]: https://npmjs.com/package/@itpropro/nuxt-oidc-auth

[license-src]: https://img.shields.io/npm/l/nuxt-oidc-auth.svg?style=flat&colorA=18181B&colorB=28CF8D
[license-href]: https://npmjs.com/package/@itpropro/nuxt-oidc-auth

[nuxt-src]: https://img.shields.io/badge/Nuxt-18181B?logo=nuxt.js
[nuxt-href]: https://nuxt.com
