docs/content/3.server-utils/1.middleware.md, before:

---
title: Middleware
description: Nuxt middleware integration
---

## Middleware

This module can automatically add a global middleware to your Nuxt server. You can enable it by setting `globalMiddlewareEnabled` under the `middleware` section of the config.
The middleware automatically redirects all requests to `/auth/login` if the user is not logged in. You can disable this behavior by setting `redirect` to `false` in the `middleware` configuration.
The `/auth/login` route is only configured if you have defined a default provider. If you want to use a custom login page and keep your default provider or don't want to set a default provider at all, you can set `customLoginPage` to `true` in the `middleware` configuration.

If you set `customLoginPage` to `true`, you have to manually add a login page to your Nuxt app under `/auth/login`. You can use the `login` method from the `useOidcAuth` composable to redirect the user to the respective provider login page.
Setting `customLogoutPage` to `true` will disable the `/auth/logout` route. This route, if a default provider is set, redirects to the default providers logout page (`/auth/<provider>/logout`). You have to manually add a logout page to your Nuxt app under `/auth/logout` and use the `logout` method from the `useOidcAuth` composable to logout the user or make sure that you always provide the optional `provider` parameter to the `logout` method.

```vue
<script setup>
const { logout, currentProvider } = useOidcAuth()
</script>

<template>
  <button @click="logout(currentProvider)">
    Logout
  </button>
</template>
```

::callout{icon="i-carbon-warning-alt" color="amber"}
Everything under the `/auth` path is not protected by the global middleware. Make sure to not use this path for any other purpose than authentication.
::

Commit message:

feat: restore original-url callback redirect with configured precedence
Closes #74

docs/content/3.server-utils/1.middleware.md, after:

---
title: Middleware
description: Nuxt middleware integration
---

## Middleware

This module can automatically add a global middleware to your Nuxt server. You can enable it by setting `globalMiddlewareEnabled` under the `middleware` section of the config.
The middleware automatically redirects all requests to `/auth/login` if the user is not logged in and forwards the originally requested URL as `callbackRedirectUrl`. You can disable this behavior by setting `redirect` to `false` in the `middleware` configuration.
After a successful callback, the user is redirected back to this original URL unless `providers.<provider>.callbackRedirectUrl` is explicitly configured. In that case, the configured callback redirect takes precedence.
The `/auth/login` route is only configured if you have defined a default provider. If you want to use a custom login page and keep your default provider or don't want to set a default provider at all, you can set `customLoginPage` to `true` in the `middleware` configuration.

If you set `customLoginPage` to `true`, you have to manually add a login page to your Nuxt app under `/auth/login`. You can use the `login` method from the `useOidcAuth` composable to redirect the user to the respective provider login page.
Setting `customLogoutPage` to `true` will disable the `/auth/logout` route. This route, if a default provider is set, redirects to the default providers logout page (`/auth/<provider>/logout`). You have to manually add a logout page to your Nuxt app under `/auth/logout` and use the `logout` method from the `useOidcAuth` composable to logout the user or make sure that you always provide the optional `provider` parameter to the `logout` method.

```vue
<script setup>
const { logout, currentProvider } = useOidcAuth()
</script>

<template>
  <button @click="logout(currentProvider)">
    Logout
  </button>
</template>
```

::callout{icon="i-carbon-warning-alt" color="amber"}
Everything under the `/auth` path is not protected by the global middleware. Make sure to not use this path for any other purpose than authentication.
::
