---
title: Overview
description: Use one of the built in providers for the best experience
---

## Authentication Provider Presets

Nuxt OIDC Auth includes presets for the following providers with tested default values:

- [Auth0](/provider/auth0)
- [AWS Cognito](/provider/aws-cognito)
- [Entra ID](/provider/entra)
- [GitHub](/provider/github)
- [Logto](/provider/logto)
- [KeyCloak](/provider/keycloak)
- [Microsoft](/provider/microsoft)
- [PayPal](/provider/paypal)
- [Zitadel](/provider/zitadel)
- [Generic OIDC](/provider/oidc)

### Provider specific configurations

Some providers have specific additional fields that can be used to extend the authorization, logout or token request. These fields are available via. `additionalAuthParameters`, `additionalLogoutParameters` or `additionalTokenParameters` in the provider configuration.

::callout{icon="i-carbon-warning-alt" color="amber"}
Tokens will only be validated if the `clientId` or the optional `audience` field is part of the access_tokens (or id_token if existent) audiences. Even if `validateAccessToken` or `validateIdToken` is set, if the audience doesn't match, the token should not and will not be validated. Some providers like Entra or Zitadel don't or just in certain cases provide a parsable JWT access token. Validation will fail for these and should be disable, even if the audience is set.
::

The `redirectUri` property is always required and should always point to the callback uri of the specific provider. For Auth0 it should look like this `https://YOURDOMAIN/auth/auth0/callback`. The playgrounds nuxt.config.ts has examples for multiple providers.

If there is no preset for your provider, you can add a generic OpenID Connect provider by using the `oidc` provider key in the configuration. Remember to set the required fields and expect your provider to behave slightly different than defined in the OAuth and OIDC specifications.
For security reasons, you should avoid writing the client secret directly in the `nuxt.config.ts` file. You can use environment variables to inject settings into the runtime config. Check the `.env.example` file in the playground folder for reference.

Also consider creating an issue to request additional providers being added.

```ini
# OIDC MODULE CONFIG
NUXT_OIDC_TOKEN_KEY=
NUXT_OIDC_SESSION_SECRET=
NUXT_OIDC_AUTH_SESSION_SECRET=
# AUTH0 PROVIDER CONFIG
NUXT_OIDC_PROVIDERS_AUTH0_CLIENT_SECRET=
NUXT_OIDC_PROVIDERS_AUTH0_CLIENT_ID=
NUXT_OIDC_PROVIDERS_AUTH0_BASE_URL=
# KEYCLOAK PROVIDER CONFIG
NUXT_OIDC_PROVIDERS_KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_SECRET=
NUXT_OIDC_PROVIDERS_KEYCLOAK_CLIENT_ID=
NUXT_OIDC_PROVIDERS_KEYCLOAK_BASE_URL=
...
```
